(dramatic music)
All right.
So far all the data that we've been pulling into our website
is just living inside of sanity.
Whoever...
It's probably the case that your website
also has data that needs to be pulled into
your website from another place.
Most likely in API.
So, what if you have a rest API?
Whether that's tweets or Instagram posts,
or maybe your GitHub, or just some API
that comes from your, like list of products
or something like that.
How do you get that data into Gatsby
and still reap all the benefits of it-
(coughing)
Woo.
And still reap all the benefits of the server rendered,
pre-rendered, SEO friendly, all the Gatsby good stuff?
So, we are gonna go to this website, sampleapis.com,
and, you can pick your own, you can pick your own API.
There's all kinds of interesting PlayStation games,
Xbox games.
We are going to be doing beers.
So, you go to beers and click on API link.
And then, it has the choice
of three different kinds of beers.
So we are gonna click on ale here.
And then this just kicks us off to a JSON file,
which has a list of, I don't know, hundreds of beers.
And it actually does not matter that
this is hundreds of beers
because, we are not gonna be fetching this on page load,
we'll be fetching this up build time.
So, what we need to do is figure out,
how do we get this data into our Gatsby GraphQL API,
and then do the whole query and pull it in.
So, that is going to be done in our Gatsby dash Nodes.
So, Gatsby dash Node dot JS.
And we've already used one of these like hooks, right?
We are hooking into the create pages API.
However, there also is an API for sourcing Nodes.
So now, two words there, sourcing and Nodes.
Sourcing means putting the data into your Gatsby API
and Nodes is...
A Node is a piece of data.
And that's why whenever we do our like,
pizza query, we ask for the Nodes,
and then we ask for the name and the toppings.
That's because each piece of data in the Gatsby API
is referred to as a Node.
That's a GraphQL thing.
So, what we wanna do is, put pieces of data
into the GraphQL API by sourcing them.
So, what we do is we export async function
and then the function that we hook into
is called sourceNodes.
And if you just Google that like sourceNodes Gatsby,
A tu tuu.
There it is.
You see. Extension point to tell plugins to sourceNodes.
This API is called during the Gatsby bootstraps sequence.
So, this actually happens before the create page is done,
because the data needs to exist first
before the pages are created.
So, actually just for your sanity sake, put that up here,
because this happens before that.
So, now we have this function called sourceNodes
and inside of that,
we want to fetch a list of beers
and source them into our Gatsby API.
So, I'm going to make another function above this.
It will be an async function and we'll call it,
fetchBeersAndTurnIntoNodes.
And that will take three arguments that are destructure.
So curly brackets.
We have actions, just like we did before.
We have createNodeId.
I'll explain what that is in just a second.
And then also createContentDigest.
And then they'll just console log, Turn Beers into Nodes.
Okay.
Then we take this fetchBeersAndTurnIntoNodes,
and we go into our sourceNodes here
and we can await fetchBeersAndTurnIntoNodes.
What I like to do,
because like this might not be the only thing that I do,
is actually just, I immediately go for the Promise.all
like we did down here.
In that way, if I want to add something in the future,
it's really easy to do.
So, let's say await capital P Promise.all array,
and then fetchBeerAndTurnIntoNodes.
That's just one thing.
And it doesn't matter if you Promise that all one Promise,
it will just wait for that one Promise to resolve.
So, there's no downside to doing that.
Okay.
I think we should try and make sure
that our hook is working fine.
So, let's go to our terminal here.
We'll kill it, rerun it,
and, looks like we got an error.
Cannot destructure property actions of undefined or null.
Oh, you know why?
Because we forgot to take the params
and pass them to this.
So let's try that again.
Well, you see it happened there.
So, at first it sourced all this data
from sanity and then it ran this turn beers into Nodes,
then it was done transforming the Nodes
and then it goes ahead and creates our pages after that.
Okay.
So, what we wanna do here, is...
Let's go into here.
We'll say one, fetch a list of beers.
Two, loop over each one.
And then three, create a Node for that beer.
And then, that will be it.
And at that point we can just go into one of our pages
and query that data.
So, we wanna fetch a list of beer.
So, first thing is we wanna be able to use fetch,
but since this is a Node file, fetch is a browser API,
at least right now.
They are working at getting fetch into Node.
But if you wanna use the fetch API in a Node file,
you have to use this thing called isomorphic fetch.
So what we'll do here is we'll say import.
We'll say import fetch from isomorphic-fetch.
And we'll go back down to our turn fetch,
fetchBeersAndTurnIntoNodes.
Const response, or RES is equal to await fetch.
And then in quotes, we will get that API that we had,
right here.
And then once I const beers is equal to the response.json.
So, let's assume that the...
This returns from JSON and we turn it into JSON.
Then, we have our list of beers.
Let's console log it.
Just to double check that it's working.
Well, let's also get rid of any other console dot logs
that we have in here.
Otherwise it gets a little bit too messy.
Okay, good.
Start that sucker up.
There we go.
Oh, we got a Promise here.
Why?
Oh, we didn't await it.
Because this is a Promise too.
So you have to await that.
Try it one more time.
You see how like, this is one thing I don't like
about Gatsby, is the feedback cycle
to working in your Node.js file,
is sometimes like, Oh, I made a mistake.
Now I have to wait another minute.
And I bet that will get better.
But that's definitely a downside for Gatsby.
Hey, there we go.
Got all of our beers showing up. That's good.
We got a price, name, rating,
which has average reviews, and then also an image,
when you click on it and it will give you an image.
Good.
So let's move over to the second one
which is loop over each beers.
So we could do it two ways.
We could say beers dot for each,
because there is an array.
Or you could say for const beer of beers.
I'll show you this way.
Just cause there's two different ways to loop over thing.
Before we did dot for each,
here we are using a four of loop.
Then inside of that, we need to create a Node for each beer.
So it's like const nodeContent
is equal to JSON dot stringify.
So, we take the object and stringify the single beer.
Then we create a second variable called nodeMeta.
Because when you create a Node,
you need to both give it the actual data
that you are gonna be putting in that Node,
as well as some Metadata about the data
that you are putting in.
So that is an object.
And we'll say the ID of this Node, right?
Because if we are looking here,
like these don't have IDs, right?
So, if you don't have an ID,
you have to make a unique ID that lives inside of Gatsby.
And they give us this nice little helper function,
called createNodeId.
See how we destructured it
from the function signature right here.
We'll go ahead and use that here.
And we will start it.
I like to prefix mine with the type of data.
So beer dash, and then we'll use the beer.name as the ID.
Then we say, parent is null.
So, if this was like relational data,
like a beer had like a parent beer or something like that,
you could link it to another Node
similar to have like how pizzas have toppings,
how they're related.
You could do that.
In our case, it's null.
Also same thing.
Children is going to be an empty array.
There are no children beers.
And then there's also an internal sub object
that lives inside of that,
where we give it a type of capital B, Beer.
And that is going to specify our query name.
I'll show you that in a second.
The media type capital T is application,
forward slash JSON.
Why? Because when you're sourcing Nodes,
it could be images, it could be marked down,
it could be anything.
In our case, we are saying it's JSON.
And the only reason we put this here
is so that other plugins that are looking
for that type of media, can find it.
We aren't using that, but sometimes
you source something like markdown,
and then you use another plugin to parse that mark down.
And by setting the media type here,
other plugins will be able to find the type of media
that it's looking for.
And then the contentDigest,
is createContentDigest.
And we pass it the beer.
And that is just an internal thing in Gatsby.
So it knows if the data has changed or not.
So, you can look up the docs for that,
but you just kinda have to do that in every single one.
Okay. So, we created the actual nodeContent,
and then we also created a bunch of Metadata about it.
The final thing we need to do here is take our actions,
and run the Createnode method.
And that will take an object
with those two things we just created.
So, it's really just one object, right?
It's the nodeMeta and the nodeContent,
but it goes into one object.
So, we'll spread it in there.
We'll take the beer.
And we also spread in the nodeMeta.
And, I'm just looking at that.
Actually, we don't even need this.
For some reason, I thought we needed this.
No, we don't need it.
Okay. Sorry.
The two pieces that we need are not nodeMeta nodeContent.
It's nodeMeta and the actual beer itself.
The singular beer.
So, founders all day IPA,
and all of the data that goes along with that.
So, with that comment above there,
give it a save.
Now let's rerun our NPM start.
And once this has finished,
we should be able to go to our GraphQL API,
and be able to see the data in that API
as well as some additional queries that were created for us.
Boom.
So, GraphQL API.
Let's get rid of this.
Let's go to our Explorer. Look at this.
So if you click on Explorer right here,
you see, all beer.
And why? Because the type was specified right here,
and Gatsby will automatically make two queries for you.
All beer, and singular beer, which is great.
And then it gives you the ability to filter,
and give you Nodes, and all kinds of really neat info.
I really liked that.
So, I we'll say all beer, Nodes,
and for each Node there,
we want the name, the price, the rating,
and then for the rating,
we want the reviews, and the average, right?
That's so cool because in a lot of GraphQL APIs,
you have to explicitly type out all of the fields.
With Gatsby, you just give it some data
and it will figure out all this for you.
Then we'll go ahead and run it.
And you see, now this data is being pulled in
to our GraphQL API for us, based on
whatever pieces of information
that we want are being pulled in.
And, I think that's so cool because,
the difference between writing a plugin for Gatsby
and just writing it in your Gatsby.GatsbynoJS, is nothing.
Like if you were to crack open the sanity source plugin,
you'll see that they're just doing this exact same thing.
They are going grabbing some data,
they are looping over that data
and then putting it into your GraphQL API for you.
So that part is done.
In the next video, what we'll do
is we'll write some queries to actually pull this into
our beer's page.
So we'd go ahead and display it.
So maybe that's a little challenge to you.
Try to make a beer's page,
query all the beers, and then display them
based on if they have a photo or not,
as well as the rating of that.